## New field in Message Archive Management MUC entries: Sender ID

As a part of ensuring GDPR compliance, it is essential to be able to efficiently query MAM MUC data via sender ID (to retrieve user's personal data).
Originally, the sender JID could be found only as a part of an encoded XML message element, so finding all items sent by a certain user would be **extremely** inefficient (or rather: anti-efficient).
MongooseIM 3.4.0 uses a modified schema for MAM MUC backends which enables a more efficient extraction.

Below you may find migration instructions specific to your MAM backend.

### RDBMS

#### Step 1

Please execute the following SQL statements on your MIM database:

**MySQL**

```
ALTER TABLE mam_muc_message ADD COLUMN sender_id INT UNSIGNED;
CREATE INDEX i_mam_muc_message_sender_id USING BTREE ON mam_muc_message(sender_id);
```

**PostgreSQL**

```
ALTER TABLE mam_muc_message ADD COLUMN sender_id INT;
CREATE INDEX i_mam_muc_message_sender_id ON mam_muc_message USING BTREE (sender_id);
```

**MSSQL**

```
ALTER TABLE [dbo].[mam_muc_message] ADD sender_id bigint;
CREATE INDEX i_mam_muc_message_sender_id ON mam_muc_message(sender_id);
```

#### Step 2

Now you have a schema that is compatible with MIM 3.4.0 but isn't GDPR-compliant yet because the new column has no meaningful data.

Please pick your favourite scripting/programming language and populate the new column with the help of a [dedicated script](jid-from-mam-muc-script.md).
You'll need to iterate over the whole `mam_muc_message` table with the following algorithm:

1. Provide `message` column content to the script.
2. The script returns **sender's JID** as `username@server` string. You need to split it to get a separate username and server.
3. Select ID from `mam_server_user` by the username and server. If it doesn't exist, insert a new one (`id` column is automatically incremented).
4. Update the `sender_id` column in `mam_muc_message` with the retrieved ID.

### Cassandra

#### Step 1

Please execute the following CQL statements on your MIM database:

```
USE mongooseim;
ALTER TABLE mam_muc_message ADD from_jid varchar;
CREATE INDEX ON mam_muc_message (from_jid);
DESC mam_muc_message;
```

#### Step 2

Now you have a schema that is compatible with MIM 3.4.0 but isn't GDPR-compliant yet because the new column has no meaningful data.

Please pick your favourite scripting/programming language and populate the new column with the help of a [dedicated script](jid-from-mam-muc-script.md).
You'll need to iterate over the whole `mam_muc_message` table with the following algorithm:

1. Extract the whole `mam_muc_message` table. Please make sure to use the paging feature of your Cassandra client, as the MAM tables tend to be very large.
```
SELECT * FROM mam_muc_message;
```
2. To make data extraction faster, MongooseIM stores 2 copies of the message in the table:
```
cqlsh:mongooseim> SELECT * FROM mam_muc_message WHERE id = 399582233150625537 ALLOW FILTERING;

 room_jid                      | with_nick | id                 | from_jid | message                        | nick_name
-------------------------------+-----------+--------------------+----------+--------------------------------+-----------
 room-ad1d999b9e@muc.localhost |           | 399582233150625537 |     null | 0x8350000001...998de2fa8426837 |       Sid
 room-ad1d999b9e@muc.localhost |       Sid | 399582233150625537 |     null | 0x8350000001...998de2fa8426837 |       Sid
```
3. The copy with an empty `with_nick` column must be updated.
4. Extract the **sender's JID** from the `message` column in the same way as described in the RDBMS migration section. By default cassandra backend uses the `eterm` format.
5. Update the `from_jid` column with the value of the extracted **sender's JID**:
```
cqlsh:mongooseim> UPDATE mam_muc_message SET from_jid = 'username@server' WHERE id = 399582233150625537  AND with_nick = '' AND room_jid = 'room-ad1d999b9e@muc.localhost';
cqlsh:mongooseim> SELECT * FROM mam_muc_message WHERE id = 399582233150625537 ALLOW FILTERING;

 room_jid                      | with_nick | id                 | from_jid        | message                        | nick_name
-------------------------------+-----------+--------------------+-----------------+--------------------------------+-----------
 room-ad1d999b9e@muc.localhost |           | 399582233150625537 | username@server | 0x8350000001...998de2fa8426837 |       Sid
 room-ad1d999b9e@muc.localhost |       Sid | 399582233150625537 |            null | 0x8350000001...998de2fa8426837 |       Sid

```

### Riak

Changes to Riak schema are backward compatible with the current MongooseIM release.
This means that skipping the migration will cause only some of the new features (namely GDPR data retrival) to not work correctly.

#### Step 1

Please update the Riak schema:
```bash
# Set the RIAK_HOST to your Riak HTTP endpoint
# Set the RIAK_MAM_SCHEMA_PATH to point to new schema path, which
# by default is: RIAK_MAM_SCHEMA_PATH=tools/mam_search_schema.xml
curl -v -XPUT $RIAK_HOST/search/schema/mam \
    -H 'Content-Type:application/xml' \
    --data-binary @${RIAK_MAM_SCHEMA_PATH}
```

After that we need to either reload all Riak nodes (restart them) or manually reload the schema on live nodes.
Reloading the schema on live nodes requires access to Erlang Shell of one of the Riak nodes (any of them).
The instruction on how to get to Riak's Erlang shell is beyond this guide, but if you manage to get to it, just call:

```erlang
yz_index:reload(<<"mam">>).
```

#### Step 2

After the schema is posted and reloaded, all "new" objects will be indexed properly as long they contain 2 new fields: `msg_owner_jid` and `mam_type`.
The new MongooseIM code will insert both of them for all new MAM entires, but for all existing ones need to have the fields added.
In order to do that, we need to create a migration script (just pick your favourite scripting/programming language) that will do the following for *each* object in *each* bucket of type `mam_yz` (the object will be referred as `obj`):

* Use [this dedicated script](jid-from-mam-muc-script.md) to convert the `obj.packet_register` field value into a so called `$SENDER_JID`.
* If the script returns `$SENDER_JID` correctly:
  * set `obj.mam_type = 'muc'`
  * set `obj.msg_owner_jid = $SENDER_JID`
* If the script returns error code `-2`
  * set `obj.mam_type = 'pm'`
  * based on `obj_yz_rk` formatted as `$LOCAL_JID/$REMOTE_JID/$MSG_ID`, set `obj.msg_owner_jid = $LOCAL_JID`
* Save the modified `obj`


### ElasticSearch

#### Step 1

Please update the mapping for `muc_messages`:
 
```
PUT muc_messages/_mapping/muc
{
  "properties": {
    "mam_id": {
      "type": "long"
    },
    "room": {
      "type": "keyword"
    },
    "from_jid" : {
      "type": "keyword"
    },
    "source_jid": {
      "type": "keyword"
    },
    "message": {
      "type": "text",
      "index": false
    },
    "body": {
      "type": "text",
      "analyzer": "english"
    }
  }
}
```

#### Step 2

Now you have a schema that is compatible with MIM 3.4.0 but isn't GDPR-compliant yet because the new field has no meaningful data.

Please pick your favourite scripting/programming language and populate the new column with the help of a [dedicated script](jid-from-mam-muc-script.md).
You'll need to iterate over the all `muc_messages` documents with the following algorithm:

1. Extract some documents (notice the `size` parameter) for conversion:
```
GET muc_messages/_search/?size=100&q=!_exists_:from_jid
```
2. Extract the **sender's JID** from the `message` field in the same way as described in the RDBMS migration section. Elasticsearch backend uses exclusively the `xml` format.
3. Update the `from_jid` column with the value of the extracted **sender's JID**:
```
POST localhost:9200/muc_messages/muc/%_id%/_update
{
  "doc": {
    "from_jid" : "%sender's jid%"
  }
}
```
4. Repeat all the actions until the full conversion of the database is done.
