## Extended SCRAM-SHA Support

Since this version, SCRAM authentication mechanisms were extended to support additional hashing algorithms.
So far only SHA-1 was available for hashing and now SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-384 and SHA-512 are also supported.
This includes the authentication mechanisms and the password format that is stored.
Please note that enabling and using this functionality might require adjusting the server setup.

### SASL mechanisms

The possible list of allowed SALS mechanisms was changed. We've added new and more secure methods that can be used during stream negotiation.


Please note that if you were using the following in the configurations file

`{sasl_mechanisms, [cyrsasl_scram]}`

using `cyrsasl_scram` as `sasl_mechanism` is now incorrect.
You can achieve the same result of allowing the usage of SHA-1 with SCRAM authentication mechanism with:

`{sasl_mechanisms, [cyrsasl_scram_sha1]}`

You can also specify a list of all supported SCRAM-SHA mechanisms with:

`{sasl_mechanisms, [cyrsasl_scram_sha1, cyrsasl_scram_sha224, cyrsasl_scram_sha256, cyrsasl_scram_sha384, cyrsasl_scram_sha512]}`

Before setting up this configuration, please make sure that the client application is capable authenticating with a selected set of authentication mechanisms.
For more details please refer to the [authentication](../../Advanced-configuration#authentication) section.

### SCRAM password format

To complement the extensions of the authentication mechanisms, the SCRAM password format was also updated.
Legacy plaintext and SCRAM formats are still supported.
Nonetheless, please note that if you were using SCRAM as a password format, this meant that SHA-1 was used as the hashing algorithm.
This allowed authenticating with PLAINTEXT and SCRAM-SHA-1.

In the new setup the user will still authenticate with those mechanisms given the possible slight syntax change explained [above](#sasl-mechanisms).

However, mixing of the old password format with the new authentication mechanisms can lead to conflicting situations where:

1. A user wants to authenticate with e.g. SCRAM-SHA-256.
2. His old password format is only storing SHA-1 password hash.
3. The authentication fails as it is not possible to derive SHA-256 hash from SHA-1.

If you want to use the new password format with a full set of supported SHA hashes, a password change is required to calculate all the new SHA hashes.
Otherwise, please make sure that you provide the right `sasl_mechanism` configuration, where the mechanism you authenticate with is compatible with the password format you store.

For more details related to the new password format, please refer to [authentication](../../Advanced-configuration#authentication) and [SCRAM serialization](../../scram-serialization.md) sections.

## Message retraction

If you are using MAM with RDBMS, please update your database schema with the following queries. This change is necessary as the support for [XEP-0424: Message Retraction](http://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0424.html) requires a new column for the `origin_id` attribute of MAM messages, which allows MAM to identify the messages to retract. Indexes for this column are required for efficient queries. Only the messages stored after this change can be retracted.

**MySQL**
```sql
ALTER TABLE mam_message ADD COLUMN origin_id varchar(250) CHARACTER SET binary;
CREATE INDEX i_mam_message_username_jid_origin_id USING BTREE ON mam_message (user_id, remote_bare_jid, origin_id);

ALTER TABLE mam_muc_message ADD COLUMN origin_id varchar(250) CHARACTER SET binary;
CREATE INDEX i_mam_muc_message_room_id_sender_id_origin_id USING BTREE ON mam_muc_message (room_id, sender_id, origin_id);
```

**PostgreSQL**
```sql
ALTER TABLE mam_message ADD COLUMN origin_id varchar;
CREATE INDEX i_mam_message_username_jid_origin_id ON mam_message USING BTREE (user_id, remote_bare_jid, origin_id);

ALTER TABLE mam_muc_message ADD COLUMN origin_id varchar;
CREATE INDEX i_mam_muc_message_room_id_sender_id_origin_id ON mam_muc_message USING BTREE (room_id, sender_id, origin_id);
```

**MSSQL**

Note: `i_mam_message_username_jid_id` was missing from the schema, this is now fixed. It is not required by message retraction, but this change is recommended.

```sql
ALTER TABLE mam_message ADD origin_id nvarchar(250) NULL;
CREATE INDEX i_mam_message_username_jid_id ON mam_message (user_id, remote_bare_jid, id);
CREATE INDEX i_mam_message_username_jid_origin_id ON mam_message (user_id, remote_bare_jid, origin_id);

ALTER TABLE mam_muc_message ADD origin_id nvarchar(250) NULL; 
CREATE INDEX i_mam_muc_message_room_id_sender_id_origin_id ON mam_muc_message (room_id, sender_id, origin_id);
```
