## DB migrations

The migrations scripts for Postgres, MySQL, MSSQL can be found in the [`priv/migrations`](../../priv/migrations/) directory. Provide the existing server domain as a default for the `server` column instead of the empty string.

### Changes in XEPs:
- `mod_last` 
   - Table `last` - added server column, updated primary key and indexes.
- `mod_privacy` 
   - Table `privacy_default_list` - added server column, updated primary key and indexes.
   - Table `privacy_list` - added server column, updated primary key and indexes.
- `mod_private`
   - Table `private_storage` - added server column, updated primary key and indexes, removed unused columns.
- `mod_roster` 
   - Table `rosterusers` - added server column, updated indexes.
   - Table `rostergroups` - added server column, updated indexes.
   - Table `roster_version` - added server column, updated primary key and indexes.
- `mod_muc` 
   - Table `i_muc_light_blocking` - updated indexes.
- `mod_inbox` 
   - Table `inbox` - updated primary key and indexes.

### Other changes:
- RDBMS auth - modified `users` table.
- Added `domain_settings` table.
- Added `domain_events` table.

## Hook migrations

- `filter_room_packet` hook uses a map instead of a proplist
  for the event data information.
- `room_send_packet` hook has been removed. Use `filter_room_packet` instead.
- `filter_room_packet` is called for HostType (was for MucHost).
- `forget_room` is called for HostType (was for MucHost).
- `forget_room` takes an extra argument HostType.
- `filter_room_packet` takes an extra argument HostType.
- `is_muc_room_owner` is called for HostType (was for MucHost).
- `is_muc_room_owner` takes an extra argument HostType.
- `muc_room_pid` hook removed.
- `load_permanent_rooms_at_startup` option is ignored now.
- `gen_mod:get_module_opt_by_subhost` API removed.
- `update_inbox_for_muc` is called for HostType.
- `get_mam_muc_gdpr_data` is called for HostType.
- `get_mam_pm_gdpr_data` is called for HostType.
- `get_personal_data` handlers take an extra argument: `HostType` as the second parameter.
- `get_mam_pm_gdpr_data` and `get_mam_muc_gdpr_data` take `HostType` argument.

## Metrics REST API (obsolete)

The API is still considered obsolete so if you are using it,
please consider using [WombatOAM](https://www.erlang-solutions.com/capabilities/wombatoam/)
or metrics reporters as described in [Logging and monitoring](../operation-and-maintenance/Logging-&-monitoring.md).

In each endpoint, `host` has been changed to `host_type`.
This is because the metrics are now collected per host type rather than host.


## Users cache

MongooseIM used to feature a cache to check whether a user exists, that was unavoidably enabled, and had no eviction policy, that is, the cache could continue growing forever. Now, MIM features a module called [`mod_cache_users`](../modules/mod_cache_users) that implements a configurable cache policy, that can be enabled, disabled, and parametrised, per `host_type`. This might not be enabled by default in your configuration, so we recommend you verify your configuration and enable it if needed.
