## Configuration options

With the rework of connection handling for server-to-server (S2S) and component connections, we have updated several configuration options. Some of the changes affect client-to-server (C2S) connections as well.
Some of the affected options were present in the default configuration file, and you might need to amend them even if you haven't changed them.

### General

The following options from the [general](../configuration/general.md) section were removed:

* `general.max_fsm_queue`, used to limit the maximum number of incoming messages in the internal queues for S2S and component connections.
  [Traffic shapers](../configuration/shaper.md) should be used instead, as they provide a more reliable protection, because they act at an earlier stage.
* `general.domain_certfile`, used to specify distinct certificates for specific local XMPP domains. Instead, now you should specify the certificates in the configuration sections of your [C2S](../listeners/listen-c2s.md#listenc2stlscertfile) and [S2S](../listeners/listen-s2s.md#tls-options-for-s2s) listeners.

### Shaper name validation

When a referenced [traffic shaper](../configuration/shaper.md) does not exist, MongooseIM will now issue an error and refuse to start.
In the previous version, it would silently disable the shaper instead.
This means that your previous config might now cause an `undefined_shapers` error - in such case, you need to make sure the shaper is defined in the `shaper` section, or disable shaping by using the default `none` shaper.

### Client-to-server (C2S) connections

The `listen.c2s.shaper` option references the traffic shaper used for incoming C2S connections.
This logic is unchanged, but there was an issue in the default configuration file - it referenced the `c2s_shaper` access rule (which had no effect) instead of the [`normal` shaper](../configuration/shaper.md#c2s-shaper).
This is fixed in the new default configuration file, but you might need to update it in your configuration as well.
It is recommended to also remove the obsolete `c2s_shaper` access rule to avoid confusion.
Keep in mind that you might have several listeners configured.

Another change is that the `listen.c2s.tls.module` option is removed, because `fast_tls` is not supported anymore.
All listeners use the native Erlang/OTP TLS implementation instead (which was called `just_tls` before).

### Server-to-server (S2S) connections

The `listen.s2s.shaper` option references the traffic shaper used for incoming S2S connections.
Previously, this option referenced an access rule name instead.
In the default configuration file, the obsolete `s2s_shaper` rule was replaced by the corresponding [`fast` shaper](../configuration/shaper.md#s2s-shaper).
You might need to apply this fix in your configuration file.
Keep in mind that you might have several listeners configured.
It is recommended to remove the `s2s_shaper` access rule as well to avoid confusion.

!!! note "Shaper for outgoing S2S connections"
    For outgoing connections, there is a new option [`s2s.outgoing.shaper`](../configuration/s2s.md#s2soutgoingshaper).
    Together with `listen.s2s.shaper`, it allows you to shape the traffic from both connection types.

Options from the [s2s](../configuration/s2s.md) section were reworked. All affected options are listed below:

* `s2s.address` was renamed to [`s2s.outgoing.address`](../configuration/s2s.md#s2soutgoingaddress).
* `s2s.certfile` was renamed to [`s2s.outgoing.tls.certfile`](../configuration/s2s.md#tls-options-for-outgoing-connections).
* `s2s.ciphers` was renamed to [`s2s.outgoing.tls.ciphers`](../configuration/s2s.md#tls-options-for-outgoing-connections).
* `s2s.dns` subsection was renamed to [`s2s.outgoing.dns`](../configuration/s2s.md#s2soutgoingdnsretries).
* `s2s.max_retry_delay` was renamed to [`s2s.outgoing.max_retry_delay`](../configuration/s2s.md#s2soutgoingmax_retry_delay).
* `s2s.use_starttls` was replaced with [`s2s.outgoing.tls.mode`](../configuration/s2s.md#s2soutgoingtlsmode). The default value `starttls` has the same meaning as the default value `optional` of the former option. You can use the [`s2s.outgoing.tls.verify_mode`](../configuration/s2s.md#tls-options-for-outgoing-connections) option to enable/disable certificate verification.

You might need to amend these options in your configuration file.

### External component connections

The component listener section, previously called `listen.service`, was renamed to [`listen.component`](../listeners/listen-components.md).
The `listen.service.shaper_rule` option, contrary to its name, was referencing the shaper directly.
Now, this option has a more intuitive name `listen.component.shaper`, and its logic is unchanged.
You might need to update these options in your configuration file.
Keep in mind that you might have several listeners configured.

## Metrics

Metrics related to XMPP traffic were reworked from scratch. They are now more consistent and provide better coverage of the instrumented events. The table below summarizes the changes. The names presented in the table are assuming that Prometheus is used. For more information, e.g. about Prometheus labels or Exometer metrics, follow the links in the table.

| Previous metrics | Current metrics  | More information |
| ---------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| `c2s_tcp_data_in`, `c2s_tcp_data_out`,<br> `c2s_tls_data_in`, `c2s_tls_data_out`,<br> `s2s_tcp_data_in`, `s2s_tcp_data_out`,<br> `s2s_tls_data_in`, `s2s_tls_data_out`,<br> `component_tcp_data_in`, `component_tcp_data_out`,<br> `component_tls_data_in`, `component_tls_data_out` | `tcp_data_in`, `tcp_data_out`,<br> `tls_data_in`, `tls_data_out` | [Network data](../operation-and-maintenance/MongooseIM-metrics.md#network-data-metrics) |
| `c2s_element_in_*`, `c2s_element_out_*` | `xmpp_element_in_*`, `xmpp_element_out_*` | [XMPP traffic](../operation-and-maintenance/MongooseIM-metrics.md#xmpp-traffic-metrics) |
| `c2s_xmpp_element_size_in_byte_size`, `c2s_xmpp_element_size_out_byte_size`,<br> `s2s_xmpp_element_size_in_byte_size`, `s2s_xmpp_element_size_out_byte_size`,<br> `component_xmpp_element_size_in_byte_size`, `component_xmpp_element_size_out_byte_size` | `xmpp_element_in_byte_size`, `xmpp_element_out_byte_size` | [XMPP traffic](../operation-and-maintenance/MongooseIM-metrics.md#xmpp-traffic-metrics) |
