## Change of the default TLS library used for C2S connections

As of this release, usage of `fast_tls` for Client to Server connections (C2S) has been deprecated.
`fast_tls` will be removed in a future release.

From now on the default TLS library for C2S is `just_tls`, which uses TLS implementation from Erlang OTP.
In our load tests `just_tls` is as performant as `fast_tls` and also has better standards compliance.

This deprecation affects only C2S, `fast_tls` remains as a TLS implementation for S2S.

To continue using `fast_tls` for C2S in existing deployment after upgrade, make sure the
option `tls.module` is set to `fast_tls` in `listen.c2s` section of your MongooseIM config.

### Channel binding for TLS

Note that `just_tls` currently does not implement `channel binding` for TLS, which is required for SCRAM_PLUS
authentication methods. If you depend on using SCRAM_PLUS for authentication, you need to use `fast_tls`.
We do plan to implement `channel binding` for `just_tls` (only for TLS 1.3) in the future.

### TLS handshake

There is a difference between `fast_tls` and `just_tls` in client authentication behaviour during TLS handshake.

`fast_tls` doesn't verify client certificate during TLS handshake and relies on other mechanisms, like SASL,
to authenticate client. It may involve client certificate, but is executed after TLS handshake succeeded,
and in case of invalid certificate will result in an error reported in message stream.

`just_tls` by default verifies client certificate during TLS handshake
and aborts connection when client certificate is invalid. This is realised by the default settings in
`just_tls` of `verify_mode` set to `peer` and `disconnect_on_failure` set to `true`.

If you want to have the same behaviour for `just_tls` as it was in `fast_tls` regarding TLS handshake,
set `tls.disconnect_on_failure` to `false`. This is required for example when using SASL for client authentication.

It is also possible to completely disable client certificate verification during TLS
handshake in `just_tls` by setting `tls.verify_mode` to `none`.

For more information regarding configuration of TLS for C2S see [Listener modules](../listeners/listen-c2s/#tls-options-for-c2s)

## `exml` upgraded to 4.0

### Change of internal format of XML messages affects the ways to upgrade MongooseIM cluster

`exml` library used for parsing and emitting of XML messages was upgraded to version 4.0.
In this new version internal representation of XML elements changed - element attributes
are stored in a map (previously in a key value list).

This is a disruptive change, and rollback to previous version is not possible.

Parsed XML messages are being sent within MongooseIM cluster between Erlang nodes in internal representation,
so to understand received messages (Erlang terms), all nodes must have the same code that handle XML elements. This makes a rolling upgrade
(an upgrade of a cluster node by node) not viable for this release.

One solution is to stop the whole MongooseIM cluster, upgrade and start again.

The second solution is to configure a new cluster running new version
alongside the old cluster, and migrate traffic from the old one to the new one.

There is a third solution, which allows to maintain service availability but not requiring building a full new cluster.
In this solution, you upgrade nodes one by one (like in the rolling upgrade), but change configuration to not allow
upgraded node to rejoin the old cluster, but instead run as a new cluster.
That way all nodes are migrated one by one to the newly formed cluster. Both clusters have access the same database.

One warning regarding this solution: There is a corner case regarding access to archived messages only while both clusters
are operating simultaneously. It may happen that users still connected to the old cluster try to retrieve newly archived messages.
This will result in errors and possibly crashes as the old code doesn't recognise new internal representation.
We just want to warn the operator about such possibility, the chance of it happening is slight, as we recommend the upgrade
to be undertaken during the time of minimal traffic.

### Archived XML - mod_mam

Change of XML element representation also affects stored or archived messages, if they are stored in the internal Erlang term format.

There is a config setting `modules.mod_mam.db_message_format` which controls the message format for archived messages
and its default is different depending on the database backend used.
The default for RDBMS databases is `mam_message_compressed_eterm` (which is Erlang term format) while for Cassandra it is `mam_message_xml`.

Messages stored in XML textual format (`mam_message_xml`) are not affected by `exml` version change.

For messages stored as Erlang term (`mam_message_compressed_eterm` or `mam_message_eterm`), we provide transparent retrieval of the old format, while new messages will be written in the archive in
the new format. This means that the change of the format is transparent in operations of MongooseIM.
However if you have external tools accessing message archive, you may need to verify that they work correctly with the new internal XML element representation.

