## Removal and deprecation

The following features are removed or deprecated.

### Removal of `mod_jingle_sip`

`mod_jingle_sip` has been removed from the codebase.

If your deployment used this module, update your application before upgrading:

- Remove the entire `[modules.mod_jingle_sip]` section from MongooseIM configuration.
- Update any components that relied on MongooseIM's Jingle-SIP translation.

### Deprecation of `mod_muc_log`

`mod_muc_log` module is deprecated and will be removed in the next release.
If you rely on room history and retrieval, consider migrating to `mod_mam`.

## Configuration options

We have changed or removed some configuration options.

### `mod_caps` reimplemented with CETS

The `mod_caps` module has a new implementation.
As part of the rework, its configuration options have changed - make sure to adjust your configuration accordingly.

- [`backend`](../modules/mod_caps.md#modulesmod_capsbackend) now has only one supported value: `cets`. Entity capabilities are now stored in CETS, so the corresponding [`cets` internal database](../configuration/internal-databases.md) is now required by this module.
- `cache_size` and `cache_life_time` options are removed, because there is no such cache anymore.
- [`iq_response_timeout`](../modules/mod_caps.md#modulesmod_capsiq_response_timeout) is a new option specifying the maximum waiting time for a user's response to a server disco IQ request. Previously, this was hardcoded to 32 seconds, while the new default is 5 seconds.
